Open Source.

NetFPGA - Networked FPGA. It is the board that plugs into the computer with 4 ports of networking.  
The 1G board contains 4 ports of ethernet and uses a PCI connector. 
The 10G board contains 4 ports of 10Gbps ethernet  and uses a PCIe connector.

Each version of the board contains enough memory bandwidth to allow full line rate network traffic. The NetFPGA platform is much more than the physical board. 

The NetFPGA platform consists of 4 elements.
1. NetFPGA board - 1G and 10G
2. Tools + Reference designs - Each boards comes with set of tools. The reference design shows what can be accomplished with the card. 
3. Contributed projects - In addition to the reference design each user of the NetFPGA have contributed to their own projects. They can be used as is or as the basis for our project. 
4. Community - COmmunity of users. Answer questions and contribute to design and code. 

Comparison of NetFPGA 1G and 10G
1G:
	4 * 1Gbps Ethernet Ports
	4.5MB ZBT SRAM
	64MB DDR2 SDRAM
	PCI
	Virtex 2-Pro 50

10G:
	4 * 10Gbps SFP+
	27MB QDR2-SRAM
	288MB RLDRAM2
	PCI Express x8
	Virtex 5 TX240T
 

The NetFPGA is plugged into a standard PC. This provides a hardware accelerator with an FPGA driving GigaBit or 10GigaBit network links. 

3 main uses of NetFPGA
1. Running the NetFPGA as hardware accelerator. The hardware accelerated linux router utilizes the netFPGA to provide acceleration to unmodified linux system. It uses one program called rkd - Router kit Daemon that monitors the linux routing table and route cache and mirrors them down to the NetFPGA IPV4 Router. This allows users to manually modify the routing table using the standard part. 
The RKD daemon runs alongside stnadard daemon like xorg. 

The reference design can be easliy extended to add additional functionality and serve as a starting point. 
The 1G board contains the following:
	1. Reference NIC
	2. Ethernet Switch
	3. IPV4 Router
	4. Hardware Accelerated Linux Router

It contains a pipeline of modules interconnected by FIFO interfaces. Users can build softwares on the host that communicates with the NetFPGA driver. eg Own routing protocol. Additional modules can be inserted into the NetFPGA pipeline. This is done by writing VeriLOG or VHTL. 
Building new systems:
	Writing Verilog/Vhtl, simulating and synthesizing. 

Not all projects can be built over the reference design. 

Tools + Reference design 1G:
	Tools:
	------
	Compile Designs
	Verify Designs
	Interact with hardware
	
Interaction with hardware:
---------------------------
	Download designs,
	Read and write registers on the NetFPGA. 

Reference Designs:
-------------------
The NetFPGA 1G currently contains 3 hardware and 2 s/w ref designs
	1. Router HW
	2. Switch HW
	3. NIC HW
	4. Router Kit SW ( Accelerated linux router )
	5. SCONE SW ( Software side of the reference router ) It handles OSPF, handles ICMP messages and all exceptions outside the hardware forwarding path. 


User contributed Projects:
---------------------------
	1. Open Flow Switch
	2. Packet generator
	3. NetFlow Probe
	4. NetThreads
	5. zFilter
	6. Traffic Monitor
	7. DFA
More projects: http://netfpga.org/foswiki/NetFPGA/OneGig/ProjectTable


Community:
----------
	The NetFPGA contains a wiki and forums. 
	Wiki - Document the platform and contains the users guide and the developers guide. 
	The users guide:
	----------------
		It gives all the information needed to install and to test the NetFPGA card. It also contains information about the reference designs and how they are structured. 
	The Developes guide:
	--------------------
		Contains information regarding infrastructure. Includes information on directory structure, register system, simulation and hardware tests. It also guides the user on how to create a new project. The forums are for users to post questions. 

Characteristics of NetFPGA:
---------------------------
	1. Line rate platform:
		Process packets back-back without dropping any.
		used to operate on packet headers ( switching etc ) 
		Packet payload processing like intrusion detection.
	2. Open source platform:
		Source in netFPGA web site. 
		


HARDWARE OVERVIEW
==================
	NetFPGA card contains a piece of programmable hardware intergrated with a variety of hardware resources such as memory, phy chips, host interface and connectors. 
	netFPGA 1G card:
	----------------
	The card used is Virtex 2-Pro 50. FPGA chip contains many logic cells with block RAMs. 
	Two power-PC embedded processor cores which runs programs written in high level languages such as C/C++ to run directly on the FPGA. 
	GigaBit Ethernet:
	------------------	
	It also contains 4 RJ45 Ethernet ports on the left hand side of the PCB. These ports are controlled by a single chip quad code ethernet controller. 
	BroadCom PHY

	Memories:
	---------
	4.5MB Static RAM
	64MB DDR2 Dynamic RAM - Packet buffering

	PCI:
	-----
	Uses a standard PCI connector to interface with the host PC. Software running on the host can communicate with the design running on the NetFPGA via 
	1. DMA
	2. Memory Mapped Registers
	


NetFPGA 10G
-----------
	Xilinx Virtex 5 TX240T
		Heart of NetFPGA 10G. 
	Major hardware upgrade, surpassing netFPGA 1G in every aspect. 
	Faster ethernet ports, larger and faster memory, PCI express connector, larger vertes 5 FPGA. 
	1. Ethernet
		4 10GBps ethernet interfaces in SFP+. Each SFP+ is controlled by a 10GB Phy CHIP used to plugin any modules that comply with the SFP+ or SFP standard. Both supports copper and optical fiber in 10G. 
	The PHY Chip can be configured as 1G PHY so that copper and optical standard are also supported with appropriate SFP modules. 
	2. Memory
		The board has larger and faster QD2SRAM and RLDRAM2. Both of them are for high speed networking applications.	
		QDR2: Higher throughput than the SRAM used in 1G. 
		RLDRAM: Small transactions like packet buffering. 
	3. PCI Express
		Used in memory mapped register accessing and DMA packet transfering.  
	4. Serial connectors
		65GBps per direction throughput. connect 3rd party cards. 
	5. Core
	
